Welcome.
The aim of this lecture is to figure out how we can keep ahead of the server.
In spite of lags so we don't have to be resetting ourselves back and going to be drawing diagrams like
these and understanding diagrams like these to figure out why we were lagging in the first place and
what we can do.
What kind of method we can implement to resolve that.
So let's dive in and figure that out.
So in the last lecture we saw an explanation for why we were experiencing glitching due to lag and this
was the diagram you saw.
But I'm going to explain it now with another diagram just to give you another way to look at the same
problem.
So imagine we are trying to accelerate our car which is where the glitching happened.
So we've got an acceleration curve that looks like this to step function because at the beginning of
time we aren't accelerating suddenly we put down full throttle on the accelerator which in real life
doesn't happen but when you're using a keyboard for input does happen well at one particular time you
decide to put the key down and it's binary it's either on or off either full acceleration or no acceleration.
So we got a full acceleration for a short time and then we remove our finger from the key and it goes
back to zero.
That's what this graph means.
Now what happens to the position of the car over time.
Well let's start off with drawing it out in green the position X..
I would just assume that we're measuring the position from the starting line and there's no steering
there's no x y and z is just going forward.
So what happens over time is that the speed is going to be increasing so the position is going to be
moving faster and faster as you can see here this isn't a straight line but a curved line that's getting
faster and faster as it accelerates.
That's what we've got going on on a local simulation because it's as soon as we put the accelerator
down instantly We know that we need to be accelerating.
There's no lag there.
But what is happening is that while this acceleration is going on continuing for this acceleration curve
we've also got the replicated version from the server coming back down to was with a round trip time
delay because it has to take time for the acceleration information to go up to the server and then it
takes time for that information to propagate back down in the form of a replicated location back to
us.
Okay.
So this is what we've got.
We've got this same curve no this is exactly the same curve that was going on down here just replicated
a little bit later after the round trip time delay.
And what happens here obviously is when we receive that update we say hang on a second.
We're all the way up here.
But the Service says we should be back here.
Obviously it's saying that because there's been a round trip time delay but with our current implementation
what we say is well a surber MUST be right.
So we're going to go and reset our location all the way back here.
So what the user experiences is they see their car accelerating accelerating accelerating moving forward
moving forward and then suddenly we get an update from the server and whoops boom jump all the way back
and carry on moving.
Now obviously that is a really bad experience for the user.
And what we'd like to be able to do is to keep our moves that we've got ahead of the server on top of
what the server has told us so that is the implementation that we're going to be looking at keeping
ahead of the server.
So how does this work.
Well again very much the same acceleration curve and it starts off in very much the same way we have
our movement starting off on this gradual curve getting faster and faster and we carry on with X rep
and we are getting the replicated movement back from the server.
And we're saying okay well that movement is way behind where we are.
But instead of resetting back to it we go Okay so if that movement is way behind we are.
How does it relate to where we were at the same time.
So the server has to tell us what time that movement was recorded at.
And we go where were we at that time and if we replay our movements since that time these movements
that led us to be here do we end up in the same place now in this case.
Yes because we started off in the same place that time ago.
So this is the round trip time and we're able to say well the server says that at time X..
We were here.
And yes at Timex we were here.
So we don't have to change anything.
Now what happens if we carry on simulating in this fashion here.
So now you'll notice that there is a difference between what the server has said and what we are observing.
Now imagine this is because we were trying to cheat or in this case as you can see as a sharp knock
off it might be because we bumped into a car that we didn't know was there yet.
That's fair enough.
That might well happen.
Well what do we want to happen in this case.
Well we want to compare what we've got with what the servers got and we say well is that the same as
the position we were at at that time.
And if you go and look at it you say no actually because the position we were at at that time was much
further ahead.
So we're going to have to replay our moves.
These are the moves here.
Since this time up to this time.
We're going to replay them on top of the position that the server has told us about like this dotted
line.
So that's the replay of the moves on top.
And yes we're going to have to reset backwards but we're only notice having to reset backwards because
something happened on the server that we didn't know about.
Not because the server is delayed in telling us about things we're still keeping this movement that
we've made since the last server update when we're applying it on top.
So we're still always a little bit ahead of the position of the server and that's what we're seeing
here.
And that's why this server curve is still looking different to the curve that we've got here.
But as we go into the future the server is going to have this information Incorporated.
And so on and so on.
So you can see we still got the all the benefits of not being able to cheat and having server authority
but we are minimizing the times that we have to skip back.
Now let's put this in context with the solutions we've been working with previously Let's have a comparison
of the previous methods.
So in the version one what we've been doing well.
We had been.
This is the one that wasn't smooth.
Remember we've done all the simulation on the server and we basically just sent it inputs and it told
us where to place our car we weren't doing any simulation between updates.
And the problem here is that we had it very jerky and not very smooth.
And that was because the update time might be up to a second.
That's what we ended up setting it to to really stress test our method.
So that was the problem.
But what was the information sent to the server.
Well we were sending it the throw information we were sending it both the steering fro and the acceleration
throw and between updates we weren't doing anything we weren't doing any local simulation whatsoever
even if we were the autonomous proxy and the information received back from the server was the transform
and the velocity and we were overwriting our local variables.
OK so that was our method one our first very naive implementation of trying to synchronize state with
the server.
Now in version two we tried to smooth this out.
We said okay we've got a problem with it not being smooth.
So what we're going to do is we're going send the throw like we were doing before but between updates
what were going to change is we are now going to simulate yet we're going to simulate using that the
information we've got so we've got a position we've got a velocity and we've got our inputs we are going
to use those to try and guess what the server is going to tell us when it comes back.
But obviously the problem here was the lag which we've just been talking about we've seen the reason
because the server comes back with out of date information and overwrites our local information on receipt.
So what I'd like you to do is go ahead for this table and fill it out for the version 3 for the method
that I just described where we are replaying our local moves with this server updates.
So go ahead and fill out the table.
These steps are going to be what information needs to be sent to the server.
In this scheme What do you need to do between updates.
What information comes back from the server and what do you do on a server update.
When information comes back from the server.
How do you need to update your own state.
So don't worry if you struggle a little bit.
I'm just trying to get you thinking.
And we will obviously go over the solution to this challenge afterwards but just start thinking based
on the explanation I gave you.
You can review the explanation I gave you.
What do you think needs to be sent back and forth between the seller.
For this to happen.
Pause the video and have a go.
Okay welcome back.
Now hopefully you have gone ahead and shared what you think is needed in the forums.
Hopefully you got in the habit of doing this by now.
So let's have a look at what the solution to that is.
So what is the problem.
Well we currently don't think there is a problem with this method obviously.
You have to reset sometimes.
But I think that's pretty much as good as he can get so I'm going to put down that it's no problem.
The information that needs to be sent to the server is pretty much still the same information you just
need to send the throw of your control to that server and between updates you are still needing to simulate
locally to keep that smoothness between updates from the server.
Now where it starts to change is on the information received.
Were still receiving a transform and a velocity.
But now the server tells us yes this is the transform velocity but it was at this particular time in
the past so that we can say okay well in that particular time in the past where were we.
What were we doing at that time in the past and then when we receive that information what we need to
do to update our own state is say let's replay the controls that we've had since that time in the past
and that is basically the scheme that we're going for.
So we are going to be having a look at their first steps and how we can go about implementing that in
the next lecture.
Look forward to that not see you there.